Update changelog for v0.19.0 release (#7753)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/whatsnew/changelog.md

---

{{% alert title="Announcements" color="warning" %}}

> * EKS Anywhere release `v0.19.0` introduces support for creating Kubernetes version v1.29 clusters. A conformance test was [promoted](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/120069) in Kubernetes v1.29 that verifies that `Service`s serving different L4 protocols with the same port number can co-exist in a Kubernetes cluster. This is not supported in Cilium, the CNI deployed on EKS Anywhere clusters, because Cilium currently does not differentiate between TCP and UDP protocols for Kubernetes `Service`s. Hence EKS Anywhere v1.29 clusters will not pass this specific conformance test. This service protocol differentiation is being tracked in an upstream [issue](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/9207) and will be supported in a future Cilium release. The next release of EKS Anywhere, which will include the fixed Cilium version, will hence be fully Kubernetes-conformant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* EKS Anywhere release `v0.19.0` introduces support for creating Kubernetes version v1.29 clusters. A conformance test was [promoted](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/120069) in Kubernetes v1.29 that verifies that `Service`s serving different L4 protocols with the same port number can co-exist in a Kubernetes cluster. This is not supported in Cilium, the CNI deployed on EKS Anywhere clusters, because Cilium currently does not differentiate between TCP and UDP protocols for Kubernetes `Service`s. Hence EKS Anywhere v1.29 clusters will not pass this specific conformance test. This service protocol differentiation is being tracked in an upstream [issue](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/9207) and will be supported in a future Cilium release. A future release of EKS Anywhere will include the patched Cilium version.
```

Reviewer 2: Slight change: "A future release of EKS Anywhere will include the patched Cilium version when it is available"

* When upgrading to a new minor version, a new OS image must be created using the new image-builder CLI pertaining to that release.
{{% /alert %}}

## [v0.19.0](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/releases/tag/v0.19.0)

### Supported OS version details
|                     | vSphere | Bare Metal | Nutanix | CloudStack | Snow |
|:-------------------:|:-------:|:----------:|:-------:|:----------:|:----:|
|    Ubuntu 20.04     |    ✔    |     ✔      |    ✔    |     —      |  ✔   |
|    Ubuntu 22.04     |    ✔    |     ✔      |    ✔    |     —      |  —   |
| Bottlerocket 1.19.0 |    ✔    |     ✔      |    —    |     —      |  —   |
|      RHEL 8.x       |    ✔    |     ✔      |    ✔    |     ✔      |  —   |
|      RHEL 9.x       |    —    |     —      |    ✔    |     ✔      |  —   |

### Added
- Support for Kubernetes v1.29

> - Support for in-place Kubernetes version upgrade on Bare Metal clusters

Reviewer 2: Support for in-place EKS Anywhere and Kubernetes version upgrades on Bare Metal clusters

> - Support for `etcd` scaling ([#7127](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/pull/7127))

Reviewer 2: Can we clarify this a bit more? "Support for `etcd` scaling with clusters with external `etcd` deployments"

(assuming this is only for external etcd clusters)

- Etcd encryption for Nutanix ([#7565](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/pull/7565))
- Nutanix Cloud Controller Manager integration ([#7534](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/pull/7534))
- Enable image signing for all images used in cluster operations
- RedHat 9 support for CloudStack ([#2842](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere-build-tooling/pull/2842))
- New `upgrade management-components` command which upgrades management components independently of cluster components ([#7238](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/pull/7238))
- New `upgrade plan management-components` command which provides new release versions for the next management components upgrade ([#7447](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/pull/7447))
- Make `maxUnhealthy` count configurable for control plane and worker machines ([#7821](https://github.com/aws/eks-anywhere/pull/7281))

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we add below line in the `Added` section?
All the container images are signed using AWS Signer and Notation CLI.

Author: There's already an item for image signing in the `Added` section - `Enable image signing for all images used in cluster operations`
